{
  title: "CSS Customization Guide"
  share_message: "How to use custom CSS to enhance your page"
}

If you need more control over the customization of your pages on itch.io you
can request access to the CSS editor. CSS customization must be enabled on a
per-account basis.

**Please review this entire guide before requesting CSS access.** We do not
grant CSS access to empty accounts. Instructions are located on the bottom of
this page.

The CSS editor is available on:

* Project pages (Including Devlog posts)
* Jam pages
* Profile pages

$index

## Introduction

The CSS editor lets you control how your pages look outside of what the
built-in theme editor allows.  Keep in mind we sometimes upgrade itch.io's
pages and it's difficult to ensure those changes don't conflict with your
custom CSS.  **Enhancing existing components instead of trying to redo the
entire page is the best way to avoid any problems.**

The CSS classes and IDs listed on this page should be considered stable and you
can use them for targets to your customization. Use any other CSS classes at
your own risk, future updates to itch.io may not be compatible with your CSS.
We'll do our best to be conservative about changes, but sometimes we have to
make them. If we make major changes, we'll try to email all CSS users about the
updates.

CSS generated by the itch.io theme editors is applied using CSS classes, so you
can use ID selectors to have your style take higher precedence.

## Considerations

Custom CSS is a powerful tool, but can also degrade the quality of the page.
Please keep the following things in mind when designing your page.

* Don't forget about web accessibility, those with disabilities or assistive
  technologies should have no trouble accessing the page.
* Project pages are built for mobile web, please test your CSS against
  smaller viewports.
* Test your custom CSS logged out to ensure any changes to page are compatible with your CSS.
* Attempting to trick visitors into performing
  actions they didn't intend will get your CSS access (and maybe your account)
  suspended.

## Custom classes

The content you provide for your pages (project, profile, jam, etc.) supports a
subset of HTML. If you'd like to target elements in your markup with custom CSS
you can give them a class. In order to prevent conflict with itch.io's own CSS,
classes you use must begin with `custom-`. Any other classes you provide will
be stripped by the sanitizer.

To access HTML mode in our rich text editor, you can click the `<>` button.
Once you start writing HTML with the rich text editor then we recommend only
editing as HTML, as the rich text editor may rewrite your markup and strip tags
you have added.

## Project page layout

Please place all your custom rules inside of `#wrapper` to avoid breaking or
altering itch.io core functionality.

<fieldset>
<legend>`#wrapper` (default width: `100%`)</legend>
<fieldset>
<legend>`#inner_column` (default width: `960px`)</legend>

<fieldset>
<legend>`.header`</legend>

<fieldset>
<legend>`h1`</legend>
The title of the game. Is not visible when there is a banner
</fieldset>

<fieldset>
<legend>`img`</legend>
The game's banner, if uploaded
</fieldset>

</fieldset>

<fieldset>
<legend>`.columns`</legend>
<div style="display: flex">

<fieldset style="flex: 2">
<legend>`.left_col.column`</legend>

<fieldset>
<legend>`.formatted_description` (default width: `553px`)</legend>
The text you supplied for description
</fieldset>

Downloads, buy button, comments, devlogs, and message board links come here, depending on how your page is configured
</fieldset>

<fieldset style="flex: 1">
<legend>`.right_col.column`</legend>
Screenshots
</fieldset>

</div>
</fieldset>

<fieldset>
<legend>`.footer`</legend>
itch.io's footer, **do not hide these links**
</fieldset>

</fieldset>
</fieldset>

### Embedded games

Project pages that have embedded content (HTML5, Flash, etc.) have the same layout above, but with an additional element inserted above `.columns`:

<fieldset>
<legend>`.embed_wrapper` (default width: `100%`)</legend>
<fieldset><legend>`.game_frame`</legend>
Dimensions are the size you provided for your game, centered horizontally in the `.embed_wrapper`
</fieldset>
</fieldset>


## External content

If you need to reference external resources (images, fonts), you should make
sure they're hosted into a reliable place with support for HTTPS. You can embed
images and fonts directly in your CSS by Base64 encoding it.

## Getting CSS access

If you would like CSS access on your account then please [contact us][support].

Please tell us what kinds of changes you'd like to make to your page. We
restrict access to the CSS editor by default because it makes it harder for us
to upgrade game pages on itch.io without breaking custom layouts, additionally
we expect you to use CSS responsibly.

In your message:

* Please ensure that what you're trying to accomplish can't already be done with the built in theme editor.
* Briefly describe the types of changes you would like to make.
* Confirm that you are aware that you must ensure that your page remains accessible. Do not use CSS in a way that makes your pages difficult to operate or read.
* Confirm that you will not alter itch.io's built in UI with your CSS and that you will scope all changes only to the visuals of your page content.

