{
  title: "Creator FAQ"
  share_message: "itch.io frequently asked questions"
  amp: true
}

$index

## What does itch.io give me?

As a creator, **itch.io** gives you the ability to design a page where people
can download any projects you've uploaded. You can optionally put a minimum
price on your page (which can be 0), giving people the opportunity to pay you
what they think you deserve.

$link_btn{"Learn more about pricing options",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/pricing" }}}

All files and images are hosted on **itch.io** so you don't need to worry about
building a website or storing your project files anywhere. Usage information is
collected and displayed to you, such as how many times your pages are being
viewed, downloaded, and purchased.

**itch.io** handles all the technicalities behind hosting and selling your
content.

$link_btn{icon = "earth", "Get a tour itch.io for developers",
  $url_for{"developers"}}

## How much does itch.io cost?

**itch.io** costs nothing to use. You are free to create pages and upload your
content without ever having to pay anything. Advertisements will never be
placed on any of your pages.

You get to decide how much you want to support **itch.io** by choosing
what percentage of your sales should go towards our operational costs
and continued development of the platform. We call that *open revenue
sharing*.

$link_btn{icon = "earth", "Read the announcement",
  "http://itchio.tumblr.com/post/112709605589/introducing-open-revenue-sharing"}

## How are payments handled? What about VAT & VAT MOSS?

**itch.io** never collects any sensitive payment information from buyers.
Instead, it relies Stripe & Paypal to handle transactions securely.

**itch.io** supports two payout models depending on your needs: **Direct to
you**, where each purchase is a transaction to your Paypal or Stripe account,
and **Collected by itch.io, paid later**. You can pick which mode you want to
use from the seller settings page on your account.

EU VAT (European Value-Added Tax) compliance is automatic when using
**Collected by itch.io, paid later**.  Direct payments involve a bit more work
on your part, but **itch.io** gives you all the tools you need to do it.

$link_btn{"Learn more about payment options & VAT",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/payments" }}}

## What limits apply to projects and accounts?

We put some limits on new accounts to prevent abuse. We can disable them
by request, all you have to do is [contact us][support].

  * There is a soft limit of 20 project pages.
  * Individual file size is limited, and you should have 10 files max per page.  
  The limit can be raised to [by request][support].

Because **itch.io** lets users download the files exactly as you uploaded them
you can upload any kind of project for any kind of platform. There are no
restrictions.

We have classifications for tools, comics, books, soundtracks, assets, and
physical games. If that's not enough, you can even customize the noun by which
itch.io refers to your project.

## Does itch.io take ownership of the content I upload?

No. You will always fully own your content. You are free to remove it at any
time. You can read more on the [terms of use][terms-content]. **itch.io** just asks for
the minimum amount of rights necessary to run the site, such as permission to
show your game page and host your game's assets.

## Does itch.io impose any DRM (Digital Rights Management)?

No. **itch.io** lets users download the games exactly as you uploaded them. No
modifications are made to the files you upload.

## Can I give some people access to my game without having them pay?

Sure. You can generate what itch.io calls, "download keys". A download key is a
special URL that gives someone full access to download your game without
having to buy it. This is perfect for giving out copies of your game to press
or backers of a crowdfunding campaign.

You can track how many times the key has been used, give the key a name to
identify it, and revoke it if you think it is being abused.

$link_btn{"Learn more about download keys",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/download-keys" }}}

## Does itch.io have a widget? Can I embed itch.io into my own webpage?

Yes, itch.io has a `iframe` based widget. From your dashboard you can find the
Widgets link to get your game's widget code. The widget allows someone to
complete the entire purchase or download flow.

$link_btn{"Learn more about the itch.io widget",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/widget" }}}

## Can I use custom CSS on my game/jam/profile

You sure can… but it's disabled by default. First make sure what you are trying
to design can't be done with the built-in theme editor. If it can't, then you
consider applying for CSS. We manually approve accounts for CSS due to
implications about accessibility and long term support of pages when using
custom CSS.

$link_btn{"Learn about applying for CSS access",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/css-guide" }}}

## Is adult content allowed?

We don't allow hosting content that includes pornographic images or videos of
real-life humans. Fictional, illustrated, and rendered content is generally
fine, assuming it's legal. Content glorifying sexual violence is not permitted.
Depictions of minors, minor-presenting, or suggested minors in a sexual context
are not allowed and will result in account suspension. 

If you plan to collect money for your content, then **you must adhere to the
acceptable use policy of all respective payment processors that your account
utilizes**:

$link_btn{icon = "paypal", "Read Paypal's Terms",
  "https://www.paypal.com/us/legalhub/acceptableuse-full"}

$link_btn{icon = "credit-card", "Read Stripe's Terms",
  "https://stripe.com/legal/restricted-businesses"}

It’s almost impossible to come up with an exhaustive list of unacceptable
products to sell, so often we have to take content reviews one at a time. If an
issue arises with your account, then we will contact you and share what options
you may have. Note that in some cases, if you've collected money while in
violation of terms, we may be forced to refund all pending transactions, as we
will not be able to process any more payments or payouts for your account.

> **See more:** Terms of Service - [Acceptable Payment Forms][terms-acceptable]

## Can share the information itch.io collects about my buyers publicly or with third parties?

**No!** It is a violation of our privacy policy to share private, identifiable
information that itch.io collects about buyers. itch.io's dashboard provides
sellers with tools & information to help them identify any suspicious activity
or abuse. The information can only be used for your own personal records, and
for bookkeeping if necessary.

Taking this information out of itch.io to be shared publicly or with
third-party services **may result in the suspension of your account**. If you
have any issues or concerns please [contact us][support].

This information includes fields like: Email address, Name, IP Address, Country
Code, and Transaction IDs.

**Do not automatically sign up people for mailing lists.** If you'd like your
buyers to sign up for your list then you must get explicit consent from them.
Some appropriate mailing-list sign-up methods include having a link on your
project's description, install instructions, or in your project itself. ([Learn more
about GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation))

The email address that itch.io provides, along with the email tool, are made
available if you need to contact buyers with news related specifically to their
transaction. This information can not be shared or sold with other
third-parties.

